We'll also use the Shap library to determine feature importance.
Let's import the Shap library and we'll also initialize
JavaScript so that when we make plots, we can see them.
Now, here's some documentation for this function that we'll use.
If you went here, you can look for the Shap values function,
and I've also put the documentation in the notebook.
Shap values take sin x which is a matrix of samples,
number of samples by number of features,
so these are the rows and these are the columns on which to explain the model's output.
Tree limit, limits the number of trees used by the model.
We do want to set this to save runtime and then
approximate runs fast but only roughly approximates the tree Shap values.
Let's set this to false.
For models with a single output,
this returns a matrix of Shap values,
number of samples by number of features.
For models with vector outputs,
this returns a list of such matrices one for each output.
This is what we will see because we have a couple quantiles in
our labels and so we'll have a list of these matrices.
Here's an example of how we would use these functions.
We take shap.TreeExplainer, we pass in that tree-based model,
that random forest and it creates a tree explainer object.
From there, we can use that and call a member function Shap values.
We'll pass in the training data and to save runtime,
we'll set the tree limit to five.
The classifier has five distinct outputs one for each quintile.
The Shap values is a list of five numpy arrays.
This finished running, so let's see that, the labels.
You see we have zero,
one, two, three, four,
there's five different values and then the return of Shap values function,
you can see it's also length of five,
so there's five matrices inside of this.
Each element of Shap values has one row for
each training data point and one column for each feature.
We were to look at just the zeroth element of that,
we can see there's the matrix,
these are the number of rows,
and these are the number of columns,
and the columns are the number of features.
All right, please continue on with the lesson.